(DOCSP-11147): Initted Realm Electron Quickstart Doc (#494)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/node/electron.txt

Electron application quickly. To learn how to set up an Electron
application with Realm without using any additional frameworks, see the
:ref:`Electron set up <electron-setup>` instructions. If you have
already created an application using `Create React App
<https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html>`_ or are
interested in integrating a React App with Realm using Electron, check
out the :ref:`Electron with React set up <react-electron-setup>`
instructions.

Before you begin, ensure you have:

- :ref:`Created a {+app+} <create-a-realm-app>`
- :ref:`Enabled {+sync+} <enable-sync>`

Set up
------

.. _electron-setup:

Set up Realm with Electron
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To set up an Electron application using {+service+} use the following instructions:

.. include:: /includes/steps/realm-with-electron.rst

.. _react-electron-setup:

Set up Realm with Electron using Create React App
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To set up a React application with {+service+} using Electron use the following instructions:

.. include:: /includes/steps/realm-with-electron-using-create-react-app.rst

> Working Realm Using Renderer and Main Processes

Author: ```suggestion
Working with Realm Using Renderer and Main Processes
```

-----------------------------------------------

Electron applications have one main process. The main process can create
multiple BrowserWindows. Each BrowserWindow spawns its own process.
This presents the following unique challenges when developing
applications using Electron and Realm:

> - Two different processes cannot access a synced realm. Due to this, the recommended course of action is to open a non-synced realm on renderer processes and open a synced realm on the main process.

Reviewer: This is still not as clear as it could be. At the very least:
```suggestion
- Two different processes cannot access a synced realm. Due to this, the recommended course of action is to only open non-synced realms on renderer processes and only one synced realm on the main process.
```

- Since you're opening a non-synced a realm on the renderer process, you must notify the main process when the renderer performs a write transaction. The main process can then upload the local non-synced changes to the sync session.

Consider the following code in the ``main process``:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/QuickStarts/electron/quickstart-main.js
  :language: javascript
  :emphasize-lines: 39, 42, 45
  :linenos:

> Notice that on line 38, the main process opens a synced realm. On line

Reviewer: Exactly what I warned about has happened: line 38 is blank:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20050130/95209220-202b0800-07b8-11eb-9ab0-7ad35e1f9014.png)

```suggestion
Notice that on line 39, the main process opens a synced realm. On line
```

> 42, the `ipcMain <https://www.electronjs.org/docs/api/ipc-main>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
45, the `ipcMain <https://www.electronjs.org/docs/api/ipc-main>`_
```

Electron API listens for an "asynchronous-message" event. When an
asynchronous message occurs with the “sync” argument, the main process
uploads all local changes.

> Consider the adjacent ``renderer process`` code:

Reviewer: Why this word?
```suggestion
Consider the ``renderer process`` code:
```

.. literalinclude:: /examples/QuickStarts/electron/quickstart-renderer.js
  :language: javascript
  :emphasize-lines: 28, 40
  :linenos:

> On line 27, the renderer process opens a non-synced realm. All write

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On line 28, the renderer process opens a non-synced realm. All write
```

> transactions on this local Realm, will not be synced by default. In

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transactions on this local realm will not be synced by default. In
```

order to sync these writes, the `ipcRenderer
<https://www.electronjs.org/docs/api/ipc-renderer>`_ Electron API emits

> an "asynchronous-message" with the argument "sync" on line 40. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an "asynchronous-message" with the argument "sync" on line 42. This
```

tells the ``main process`` to upload all local changes to the synced
realm. 

Summary
-------

- You can create an Electron Application using {+service+} by installing `Electron <https://www.npmjs.com/package/electron>`_ and the `MongoDB Realm JS SDK <https://www.npmjs.com/package/realm>`_.

> - You can create React Application with Realm using Electron by utilizing `craco <https://www.npmjs.com/package/@craco/craco>`_, Electron, and Realm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can create a React application that uses Realm and Electron with `craco <https://www.npmjs.com/package/@craco/craco>`_.
```

- Since 2 different processes cannot access a synced realm, open a non-synced realm on the renderer processes and a synced realm on the main process.

> - Notify the main process that a write transaction has occurred on the renderer process by utilizing the `ipcMain <https://www.electronjs.org/docs/api/ipc-main>`_ and the `ipcRenderer <https://www.electronjs.org/docs/api/ipc-renderer>`_ APIs.

Reviewer: Avoid overwriting:
```suggestion
- Notify the main process that a write transaction has occurred on the renderer process with the `ipcMain <https://www.electronjs.org/docs/api/ipc-main>`_ and the `ipcRenderer <https://www.electronjs.org/docs/api/ipc-renderer>`_ APIs.
```

.. _node-electron-client-quick-start:

=========================
Quick Start With Electron
=========================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

This page contains information to quickly get {+client-database+}
integrated into your Electron application. Before you begin, ensure you have:

- :ref:`Created a {+app+} <create-a-realm-app>`
- :ref:`Enabled {+sync+} <enable-sync>`

Setup Realm with Electron
-------------------------

> .. include:: /includes/steps/realm-with-electron.rst

Author: Added an intro sentence to these subsections

Setup Realm with Electron using Create React App
------------------------------------------------

.. include:: /includes/steps/realm-with-electron-using-create-react-app.rst

> Working Realm Using Renderer and Main Processes

Author: Fixed

-----------------------------------------------

Electron applications have one main process. The main process can create
multiple BrowserWindows. Each BrowserWindow will spawn its own process.
This presents the following unique development challenges when developing
applications using Electron and Realm:

- 2 different processes cannot access a synced realm. Due to this, the recommended course of action is to open a non-synced realm on renderer processes, and open a synced realm on the main process. 

> - Since a non-synced realm is opened on the renderer process, the main process must be notified when a write transaction happens during the renderer process. 

Author: Hmm, I prefer this current approach of:

- <challenge>, <solution> 

Where we present two challenges (2 diff processes can't access a synced realm, and a non-synced realm is opened on a renderer process). I think separating the two lists might dilute the fact that a synced realm can be opened on a renderer process (but is not recommended, due to the first bullet). What do. you think?

> - Since a non-synced realm is opened on the renderer process, the main process must be notified when a write transaction happens during the renderer process. 

Reviewer: This section is not clear as is. Please rework it.

     // log in anonymously
     let user = await realmApp.logIn(credentials);

     const PersonSchema = {
       name: 'Person',
       properties: {
         _id: 'objectId',
         name: 'string'
       },
       primaryKey: '_id',
     };

     const config = {
       schema: [PersonSchema],
       path: "myrealm.realm",
       sync: {
         user: user,
         partitionValue: "My Partition"
       }
     };
     // open a synced realm
     const realm = await Realm.open(config)

     // when receiving an "asynchronous-message" from the renderer process,
     // upload all local changes to the synced realm
     ipcMain.on("asynchronous-message", (event, arg) => {
       if (arg === "sync") {
         console.log("Syncing all local changes");
         realm.syncSession.uploadAllLocalChanges();
       }
     });

     createWindow();
   });

Notice that on line 38 a synced realm is opened in this main proces. on
line 42, the `ipcMain <https://www.electronjs.org/docs/api/ipc-main>`_
Electron API is used to listen for an "asynchronous-message" event. When
that occurs, and the argument "sync" is passed in, all local changes

> will be uploaded to the synced realm. 

Author: Good catch - fixed now

.. code-block:: javascript
   :emphasize-lines: 27, 40
   :linenos:

   const { ipcRenderer } = require("electron");
   const Realm = require("realm");
   const ObjectId = require("bson").ObjectId;   

   async function run() {
     const realmApp = new Realm.App({ id: "<Your App ID>" }); // Replace <Your App ID> with your application id
     let credentials = Realm.Credentials.anonymous();
     // log in anonymously
     let user = await realmApp.logIn(credentials); 

     var PersonSchema = {
       name: "Person",
       properties: {
         _id: "objectId",
         name: "string",
       },
       primaryKey: "_id",
     };  

     const config = {
       path: "myrealm.realm",
       schema: [PersonSchema],
       sync: true,
     };  

     // open a non synced realm
     const realm = new Realm(config);  

     const personList = realm.objects("Person");   

     // create a new "Person"
     realm.write(() => {
       john = realm.create("Person", {
         _id: new ObjectId(),
         name: "John Smith",
       });
     }); 

     // Sending a request for sync to main
     ipcRenderer.send("asynchronous-message", "sync");
   }  

   run();   

> On line 27, a non-synced realm is opened in this rendere r process. All

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On line 27, a non-synced realm is opened in this renderer process. All
```

> write transactions on this local realm, will not be synced by default. In order to sync these writes, the `ipcRenderer <https://www.electronjs.org/docs/api/ipc-renderer>` Electron API is used to emit an "asynchronous-message" with the arguement "sync" on line 40. This tells our ``main process`` to upload all local changes to the synced realm. 

Reviewer: Broken link:
```suggestion
write transactions on this local realm, will not be synced by default. In order to sync these writes, the `ipcRenderer <https://www.electronjs.org/docs/api/ipc-renderer>`__ Electron API is used to emit an "asynchronous-message" with the arguement "sync" on line 40. This tells our ``main process`` to upload all local changes to the synced realm. 
```

Author: Thanks for pointing this out - fixed

> 

Reviewer: This page could use a summary.
